feat: Add new HOWTO on creating vGPU servers (#215)
citynetwork/docs: docs/howto/openstack/nova/new-vgpu-server.md

# Creating new servers with virtual GPU support

In {{brand}}, you can instantiate virtual machines --- or simply
_servers_ --- with virtual GPU (vGPU) support. For that, you use the
`openstack` CLI utility.

## Prerequisites

Although not strictly necessary, it is certainly helpful to have some
familiarity with [creating servers in {{brand}}](new-server.md),
especially with the OpenStack CLI.

## Instantiating a vGPU server

Before you begin, please make sure to source [your `openstack` RC file
first](../../getting-started/enable-openstack-cli.md).

> As we discussed in the [guide on creating servers](new-server.md), an

Reviewer: This howto guide is not a part of a sequential series, so we cannot assume as certainty that the reader has read the other guide. Thus, this feels more natural to me:
```suggestion
As we discuss in the [guide on creating servers](new-server.md), an
```

Author: It is more natural (and correct), yes.

`openstack` command for instantiating a new server looks like this:

```console
openstack server create \
    --flavor $FLAVOR_NAME \
    --image $IMAGE_NAME \
    --boot-from-volume $VOL_SIZE \
    --network $NETWORK_NAME \
    --security-group $SEC_GROUP_NAME \
    --key-name $KEY_NAME \
    --wait \
    $SERVER_NAME
```

> For servers with vGPU support, the only acceptable value for variable
> `IMAGE_NAME` is `Ubuntu 22.04 NVGRID x86_64`. Additionally, the value

Reviewer: Either:
```suggestion
For servers with vGPU support, the only acceptable value for the
`IMAGE_NAME` variable is `Ubuntu 22.04 NVGRID x86_64`. Additionally, the value
```
or (shorter, and hence preferred):
```suggestion
For servers with vGPU support, the only acceptable value for
`IMAGE_NAME` is `Ubuntu 22.04 NVGRID x86_64`. Additionally, the value
```

Author: The shorter!

> for variable `FLAVOR_NAME` should be a flavor name [prefixed by

Reviewer: Idem.

`g`](../../../reference/flavors/index.md#compute-tiers). To see all such
flavors, you can type something like the following:

```console
$ openstack flavor list -c Name | grep "g\."

| g.8c48gb50                 |
| g.24c120gb50               |
| g.48c240gb                 |
| g.12c48gb50                |
| g.16c64gb50                |
| g.12c64gb50                |
| g.16c84gb50                |
| g.8c32gb50                 |

> ```

Reviewer: If you add `-f value` to your `openstack` invocation, you can rid your screen dump of the ugly `|` characters. :)

# Creating new servers with virtual GPU support

In {{brand}}, you can instantiate virtual machines --- or simply
_servers_ --- with virtual GPU (vGPU) support. For that, you use the
`openstack` CLI utility.

## Prerequisites

Although not strictly necessary, it is certainly helpful to have some
familiarity with [creating servers in {{brand}}](new-server.md),
especially with the OpenStack CLI.

## Instantiating a vGPU server

Before you begin, please make sure to source [your `openstack` RC file
first](../../getting-started/enable-openstack-cli.md).

As we discussed in the [guide on creating

> servers](/howto/openstack/nova/new-server), an `openstack` command for

Reviewer: Drop the absolute link; it's unnecessary.

```suggestion
servers](new-server.md), an `openstack` command for
```

Author: Missed that one -- thanks!

instantiating a new server looks like this:

```console
openstack server create \
    --flavor $FLAVOR_ID \
    --image $IMAGE_NAME \
    --boot-from-volume $VOL_SIZE \
    --network $NETWORK_NAME \
    --security-group $SEC_GROUP_NAME \
    --key-name $KEY_NAME \
    --wait \
    $SERVER_NAME
```

For servers with vGPU support, the only acceptable value for variable

> `IMAGE_NAME` is `Ubuntu 22.04 NVGRID x86_64`. Additionally, the value

Reviewer: I would suggest you use non-breaking spaces in the image name here:
```suggestion
`IMAGE_NAME` is `Ubuntu 22.04 NVGRID x86_64`. Additionally, the value
```
(I guess this doesn't look to clear in the review web UI, hence the explanation.)

Author: Sorry, but I cannot type a non-breaking space in Mac OS :/ Pressing the Option key together with the Space key is supposed to do the trick, but that doesn't seem to work.

> for variable `FLAVOR_ID` should be the ID of a flavor prefixed by
> "`g.`". To see all such flavors, along with the corresponding IDs, you

Reviewer: Cross-reference please, and also you can drop the double quotes and the extra full-stop:
```suggestion
for variable `FLAVOR_ID` should be the ID of a flavor [prefixed by
`g`](../../../reference/flavors/index.md#compute-tiers). 
To see all such flavors, along with the corresponding IDs, you
```
But a different thought: why are we referring to flavors by their UUID here, when we implore users to refer to images by name and never use UUIDs? Why don't we suggest to use flavor names?

Author: Uhm, yes, names for flavors -- just like names for images. I have adapted the prose accordingly.

# Creating new servers with virtual GPU support

In {{brand}}, you can instantiate virtual machines --- or simply
_servers_ --- with virtual GPU (vGPU) support. For that, you may use the
{{gui}} or the OpenStack CLI. Following both approaches, let us
demonstrate the creation of a new server with vGPU support.

## Prerequisites

> Although not necessary, it certainly helps a lot to have some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although not strictly necessary, it is certainly helpful to have some
```

Author: Ah, yes.

familiarity with [creating servers in

> {{brand}}](/howto/openstack/nova/new-server). Additionally, if you

Reviewer: Don't use absolute links, and do make use of Mkdocs' magic linking ability referencing source Markdown files, like so:

```suggestion
{{brand}}](new-server.md). Additionally, if you
```

Author: Done (and yes, that's magical).

prefer to work with the OpenStack CLI, then make sure to properly

> [enable it first](/howto/getting-started/enable-openstack-cli).

Reviewer: Here, too:
```suggestion
[enable it first](../../getting-started/enable-openstack-cli.md).
```

Author: Yes.

## Instantiating a vGPU server

=== "{{gui}}"
    Fire up your favorite web browser, navigate to the
    [{{gui}}](https://{{gui_domain}}) start page, and log into your
    {{brand}} account.

    Create your new vGPU server, working almost exactly as you would when
    creating a "normal" server. There are two steps that you should pay
    special attention to, though.
        

>     First, the image for the new server should be the `Ubuntu 22.04 NVGRID

Reviewer: One "the" sounds superfluous here:

```suggestion
    First, the image for the new server should be `Ubuntu 22.04 NVGRID
```

Author: Aha, I guess it is.

    x86_64`; that is your only option for a server with vGPU support.
        

>     ![Select image with vGPU support](assets/new-vgpu-server/shot-01.png)

Reviewer: The screenshot isn't included in the PR (this is more of a note-to-self, as I presume that this is why the PR is marked as a draft).

Author: Yes, I expect to have two screenshots exactly, and I prefer to create those as soon as the `g`-flavors are visible in CCMP.

        
    Then, while selecting a flavor for your new vGPU server, please keep in
    mind that you should only choose one with a name prefixed by "`g.`". For
    instance, flavor `g.8c32gb50` is suitable for a vGPU server, but flavor
    `b.8c32gb` is not. Failing to select an appropriate flavor leads to a
    server with no virtual GPU support, even when it is based on the `Ubuntu
    22.04 NVGRID x86_64` image.
        

>     ![Select proper flavor for a vGPU server](assets/new-vgpu-server/shot-02.png)

Reviewer: Again, note-to-self: screenshot missing.

Author: Again, those invisible-to-CCMP `g`-flavors...

See https://ubuntu.com/esm or run: sudo pro status

The list of available updates is more than a week old.
To check for new updates run: sudo apt update

Last login: Sun Aug 13 05:48:57 2023 from 198.51.100.129
```

Your first clue regarding proper vGPU support should be in the output of
the `lspci` command:

```bash
lspci
```

```plain
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 440FX - 82441FX PMC [Natoma] (rev 02)
00:01.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82371SB PIIX3 ISA [Natoma/Triton II]
00:01.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82371SB PIIX3 IDE [Natoma/Triton II]
00:01.2 USB controller: Intel Corporation 82371SB PIIX3 USB [Natoma/Triton II] (rev 01)
00:01.3 Bridge: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 ACPI (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Cirrus Logic GD 5446
00:03.0 Ethernet controller: Red Hat, Inc. Virtio network device
00:04.0 SCSI storage controller: Red Hat, Inc. Virtio SCSI
00:05.0 Communication controller: Red Hat, Inc. Virtio console
00:06.0 3D controller: NVIDIA Corporation GA102GL [A10] (rev a1)
00:07.0 Unclassified device [00ff]: Red Hat, Inc. Virtio memory balloon
00:08.0 Unclassified device [00ff]: Red Hat, Inc. Virtio RNG
```

> Notice the third-to-last line, which says `3D controller: NVIDIA
> Corporation`; that's good! To get much more information regarding the

Reviewer: Since we can't always assume for certain that it is indeed the third-to-last line, I'd suggest to rephrase this as:

```suggestion
Notice the line that says `3D controller: NVIDIA
Corporation`; that's good! To get much more information regarding the
```

Author: Much better, yes. (And, yes, I tend to agree a lot today).
